# Productivity

This is a ridiculously, almost laughably, ambitious list of **365 Days of Your Commitment to Improving Your Productivty** ... as laughably ambitious as it might seem, the list contains NOTHING NEW ... in fact, most of it is nothing more than a RE-presentation of ancient advice from Stoics and Eastern philosophers from thousands of years ago ... the only thing that has changed is that nowadays, in our affluent world, there are more distractions and more diversions from productivity than ever ... it's as if the bulk of our technological advantages have been channelled into making most of us dramatically FATTER, LAZIER, LESS PRODUCTIVE than at any point in human history.

* **Day 1** ... Commit to working on ONE habit per day; start now -- do NOT wait until January 1 or even tomorrow.  Commit to NOT QUITTING on this system and do it NOW.

On the first day, review this list of productivity habits to work on each day and THEN either use it or throw it away and make your own ... but develop a list of productivity habits and then WORK ON YOUR OWN LIST of 365 habits.  It probably takes about 25 days or so to actually turn a simple intention into a subconscious or involuntary habit, so you will simultaneous be working on institutionalizing about twenty-five habits. Some will be easier than others, but you should try to work on the "biggest bang" habits first ... the first of all firsts is COMMITTING to the process of spending about 25 minutes a day to really work on clearing out all of the obstacles to really institutionalizing a new or better habit ... and a huge part of hat commitment is developing the list of 365 habits, or at least developing the list of habits that you will be working on in the next three to four weeks, ie the very first part of developing a better habit is thinking about that better habit and what it's really going to take for you to overcome your old reasons for failure, including your brilliant intellectual rationalizations and unstoppable excuses that give you the cover you need to QUIT ... the first part of developing better habits is for you to be honest about what kinds of things give you permission to QUIT ... if you are serious about developing better habits, you have to SYSTEMATICALLY develop the structures, lists, reminders, nags, rewards, whatever you need to drive out the QUIT.  

* **Day 2** ... Start with where you are and IMPROVE your daily exercise regimen and make it a habit to push yourself and improve each day.

Discipline is FREEDOM and your skills in spiritual and mental discipline will almost build upon your skills in physical discipline. Physical exercise is not just important for your physical health ... improving your physical health is going to make you more productive in every other endeavor in your existence, so time spent exercising will actually give you more time for OTHER things ... but this habit is not just about exercising, it is about making the time that you do exercise MORE PRODUCTIVE -- of course, it's also about adding exercise in to the rest of your life, eg taking the stairs to race the slugs who take the elevator OR parking in the back of the parking lot in order to walk into work, *check yourself* and it allows those paralyzed, fat, geriatric slugs who need those handicapped spaces to have them.  This habit is about taking a careful self-evaluation of where you are at in each micropart of each one of your calesthenic tabatas, dead lifts, kettlebell exercise, heavy bag routines and to commit to doing it BETTER.  In some cases, better might simply mean doing more reps or doing the reps faster, but often it's going to mean doing the reps as if the person who you most wanted to impress was personally watching and coaching you.  Remember, the habit is not about exercising everyday -- it's about IMPROVING the execution of that exercise routine everyday, to get more out of each minute or hour that you exercise. Not just working harder, but mostly it's about working smarter.